# Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)
If you are interested in tech, you have probably heard of EC2, but most often you've heard the term "EC2 instance." These two are slightly different: an EC2 instance is one of the primary resources provided by the EC2 service. EC2 provides on-demand, **scalable computing capacity** in the AWS cloud. With EC2, we can launch as many or as few virtual servers as we need, configure networking and security based on our requirements, and determine the necessary storage.

You will see the word "scalable" a lot in this repo because scalability is what makes cloud providers superior to traditional hosting. You can increase capacity to handle compute-heavy tasks, such as spikes in website traffic, an increase in customers, or time-consuming data processing. Similarly, you can reduce capacity when demand decreases. While you can do this with other providers, the convenience offered by AWS is unmatched. You can simply click a few buttons in the Console to scale your resources in seconds. When you no longer need them, you can terminate the resources and pay only for what you actually used.

Now, let's talk about the features within EC2 :

## Instances
An Amazon EC2 instance is a virtual server in the cloud. This is where you launch virtual server or "instance". You have full control over it from the moment you launch the instance until you terminate it. In AWS terminology, we say "Launching an instance" instead of "starting" and "Terminating an instance" instead of "deleting". You can choose from a variety of operating system, from official distributor to customize system operation in the marketplace. 
for detail explanation, you can check [EC2-Instances](./02-EC2-Instance.md)

## Amazon Machine Images (AMI)
Maybe you have see or hear the word "Image" a lot, but the image in we are disccusing now is not about digital picture that you see in front of the monitor. In this context Image refer to Virtual Machine Image, its a single, pre-configure file containing an operating system (OS), application, and all the neccesary data to boot up and run a computer system. Before launching an instance, we need to choose an AMI first. What kind of OS do you need for your instance or do you have some specific configuration for your app to run inside the instance.
for detail explanation, you can check [Amazon Machine Images](./03-EC2-AMI.md)

## EC2 Storage
We need storage to store the data we want to process in our instance. There is Amazon Elastic Block Storage (EBS), persistant storage volume for your data and there is Instance store, storage volume for temporary data that is deleted when you stop, hibernate, or terminate your instance.

There are several storage services that we can use for the instance storage, but I'll only discuss 2 storage services. for the detailed explaination of all storage services in AWS, you can check storage service folder.
For detail explanation, you can check [EC2 Storage](./04-EC2-Storage.md)